IT Fundamentals I - Foundations

4. The graduate demonstrates knowledge of Web browser function, use, configuration, and customization.
	configuration of the web browser to use the password manager


IT Fundamentals II - Technical Fundamentals

7. The graduate recommends appropriate strategies for classifying, controlling access, setting permission, configuring, optimizing, and upgrading basic system security.
       The entire point of the project is to break new ground in password security

IT Fundamentals III - Technology Management Fundamentals

3. The graduate communicates effectively with colleagues and clients in a technological environment.

Network Fundamentals
1. The graduate analyzes the characteristics of various network topologies and access methods.
2. The graduate analyzes standards, procedures, and protocols used in wired and wireless networking technologies.

       developing the threat model requires thorough understanding of HTTP and SSL

Programming I
1. The graduate can write code in the specified language to create declarations, initializations, and scoping.
2. The graduate can write code in a specified language to implement flow control.
3. The graduate demonstrates an understanding of object-oriented concepts.
4. Graduate demonstrates understanding of fundamentals of algorithm development, problem solving and data modeling.

     yeah, I can code. JavaScript, Python, and C are used in the prototype


Scripting Techniques
1. The graduate demonstrates understanding of characteristics and features of Web programming languages.
2. The graduate can demonstrate the ability to work with variables and data.
3. The graduate demonstrates understanding of decision structures.
4. The graduate demonstrates understanding of functions, methods, properties and events.
5. The graduate demonstrates understanding of how to control windows and frames in a Web programming language.
6. The graduate demonstrates understanding of client side Web programming language.
7. The graduate demonstrates understanding of custom Web programming language objects.

    JavaScript is an essential part of the browser helper


Introduction to Programming I/II
1. The graduate develops working programs that use appropriate control structures and accurately evaluates execution paths in program code.
2. The graduate designs and develops algorithms for problem solving and implements those algorithms using appropriate program code.
3. The graduate develops working programs that use appropriate data structures for problem solving.
4. The graduate develops and interprets Unified Modeling Language (UML) diagrams which model object-oriented designs.
5. The graduate applies object-oriented concepts, develops object-oriented designs, and uses object-oriented programming techniques.
6. The graduate applies software testing and troubleshooting strategies to determine programming errors and recommend appropriate solutions.
Web Programming
1. The graduate applies characteristics and features of Web programming languages.
2. The graduate demonstrates the ability to create, modify, and utilize variables and data.
3. The graduate demonstrates understanding of decision structures.
4. The graduate demonstrates understanding of functions, methods, properties, and events.
5. The graduate demonstrates understanding of how to control windows in a Web programming language.
6. The graduate demonstrates understanding of client side Web programming language.
7. The graduate demonstrates understanding of custom Web programming language objects.


Web Systems and Technologies
2. The graduate creates Web pages using specified markup and programming languages associated with client server systems.
3. The graduate utilizes the popular tools used for dynamic Web page creation.
     node.js is certainly popular. 


Networks I
6. The graduate differentiates and explains network security devices and methods for troubleshooting common security threats.
     section ___ gives an in-depth threat model

Project Management
2. The graduate creates a project plan.
    yes, I did this
4. The graduate explains the strategies and processes of project closure, acceptance, and delivery.
    hmmm


Security I
1. The graduate identifies and discusses basic concepts of security and security threats, and recommends security procedures.
2. The graduate recommends appropriate methods for controlling accessing data and information and for authenticating users and groups in gaining that access.
3. The graduate identifies security needs and recommends appropriate security practices for network infrastructures.
4. The graduate identifies and explains the role of encryption in network security.
5. The graduate explains and makes recommendations for appropriate security strategies and procedures for organizational operations.
6. The graduate evaluates risks associated with network security and recommends monitoring strategies and methods.
    this is the whole point of the project




IT Capstone
1. The graduate integrates and synthesizes competencies from across the degree program and thereby demonstrates the ability to participate in and contribute value to the chosen professional field.
   This project will be a significant contribution to the state of the art.  While the concepts are well-known, no one seems to have brought them all together into a concrete solution.  The problem is an important one that many people care about. 


Technical Writing
1. The candidate prepares a project proposal according to the guidelines specified in the program guide.
   Writing this paper has taught me to write for a much larger audience than I am accustomed to adressing.


----------------------------------------

General Education Social Sciences (Lib Arts)
1. The graduate examines the development, characteristics, functions, and interdependence of modern economic, social, and political institutions.
2. The graduate recognizes and analyzes connections between human cultures and the physical environment, and applies knowledge of these connections to explain social and political change.
3. The graduate examines the distinctive characteristics and forms of social scientific inquiry; recognizes various behavioral, cognitive, and social phenomena; and applies social science theories and methods to evaluate and explain phenomena.
4. The graduate examines fundamental social science concepts and theories that relate to the development of human thought, behavior, and social relationships.


Language and Communication
1. The graduate documents sources consistently and accurately.
2. The graduate constructs meaning by using multiple strategies to comprehend a variety of texts.
3. The graduate identifies relationships among ideas, points of view, and language choices by reading critically.
4. The graduate selects information from oral, written, or electronic sources to inform an audience about complex subjects.
5. The graduate accurately evaluates the validity, reliability, and significance of information in a given context.
6. The graduate prepares an oral presentation with a visual aid.
7. The graduate presents information to an audience using effective communication strategies.
8. The graduate adapts a particular writing to meet the needs of a specific audience, purpose, and situation.
9. The graduate applies a process approach to creating effective writings for different audiences and purposes.


Literature, Arts and the Humanities
1. The graduate recognizes and analyzes relationships within the disciplines of the humanities; and how themes and concepts connect across individual disciplines of the humanities.
2. The graduate recognizes and analyzes the interaction and integration of the humanities with cultures, and how specified cultural attitudes change over time.
3. The graduate examines the characteristics, historical origins, and roles of ethics and belief systems in human cultures, and applies this knowledge to explain human behavior.
4. The graduate recognizes and defines concepts from the visual and performing arts, identifies and defines media and processes, and applies these concepts and knowledge in evaluating works of art.
5. The graduate recognizes various creative, philosophical, and linguistic artifacts and events in the humanities and applies approaches and methods of the humanities to address them.
6. The graduate examines concepts and modes of expression in human imagination, values, and emotions.


Natural Science (Lib Arts)
1. The graduate recognizes and analyzes various natural phenomena; applies natural science methods, and approaches to these natural phenomena.
2. The graduate examines fundamental concepts and theories in the natural sciences.
3. The graduate analyzes the organization, interactions, and predictable processes of the universe.
4. The graduate identifies and analyzes the organization, interactions, and processes of the Earth.
5. The graduate analyzes the components, organization, interactions, and processes of ecosystems.
6. The graduate recognizes and applies underlying principles of matter and chemical reactions to analyze the structure, organization, interactions, and processes of organisms.


Quantitative Literacy (IT)
1. The graduate applies the fundamental ideas of discrete mathematics including logic, set theory, and graph theory in formulating and solving problems.
2. The graduate demonstrates computational proficiency with real numbers and recognizes the properties of the real number system and its subsets.
3. The graduate represents numbers in different forms, recognizes relationships among numbers and numbers systems, deduces the meanings of operations, and demonstrates a conceptual understanding of numbers.
4. The graduate demonstrates computational proficiency, including a conceptual understanding of numbers, ways of representing numbers, relationships among numbers and numbers systems, and meanings of operations.
5. The graduate solves algebraic equations and constructs equations to solve real-world problems.
6. The graduate understands and applies the basic properties of functions to solve problems.
7. The graduate applies basic geometric, trigonometric, and measurement skills and processes to problems in mathematics as well as in a variety of disciplines.
8. The graduate understands and applies elementary probability and statistics concepts and knows the relationship between them and sampling and inference.
9. The graduate constructs reasonable quantitative arguments, reasons deductively and inductively, solves quantitative problems using a variety of techniques, and determines whether a given argument has logical flaws.
10. The graduate interprets documents and materials containing quantitative information and effectively communicates mathematical arguments and quantitative results.


Reasoning and Problem Solving
1. The graduate analyzes open-ended problems by learning about the problem and evaluating the accuracy and relevance of different perspectives on the problem.
2. The graduate evaluates different sources representing a range of perspectives on a problem in order to weigh the implications and consequences of different solutions to the problem.
3. The graduate identifies internal and external biases and assumptions related to a problem, and evaluates the influence and validity of these biases and assumptions
4. The graduate synthesizes information to understand a problem’s complexities and potential solutions, and then evaluates the reasoning and evidence in support of these different solutions.
5. The graduate logically brings together information to arrive at a viable solution to a problem, and then clearly and accurately communicates the results.
6. The graduate recognizes the value of critical thinking in identifying and understanding the underlying structures of the disciplines and professions.
College Mathematics
1. The student utilizes the operations, processes, and procedures of basic numeracy and calculation skills to solve quantitative problems in arithmetic and basic algebra.
2. The student applies the operations, processes, and procedures of basic algebra to solve quantitative problems.
3. The student utilizes the operations, processes, and procedures of basic geometry and measurement to solve problems in mathematics.
4. The graduate evaluates quantitative data by interpreting statistical and graphic representations and solves basic probability problems.


College Reading and Writing
1. The student utilizes Standard English language grammar, punctuation, and sentence structure to create clear, effective, and appropriate written communication.
2. The student utilizes effective reading strategies to identify meaning and purpose in written communications.
3. The student selects information to inform an audience about subjects and adapts writing to meet the needs of audience, purpose, and situation.
Organizational Behavior and Leadership
1. The graduate can describe the effects of specified influences on individual behavior.
2. The graduate can determine which type of team and team leadership should be used to accomplish a task or project.
3. The graduate can recommend appropriate principals or techniques for guiding the development of a group.
4. The graduate analyzes the culture within an organization to determine how to work effectively within that organization.
5. The graduate can analyze leadership theories, methods and tools in given situations and select the appropriate behavior of the leader.
6. The graduate can develop and recommend how to implement effective performance evaluation processes.


Management
1. The graduate can explain the strategic planning process.
2. The graduate can describe how to establish a total quality management program in a product operation and in a service operation.
3. The graduate can describe how to establish and promote an entrepreneurial emphasis within an organization.
4. The graduate can recommend effective techniques for managing conflict and change.
5. The graduate can correctly apply principles of human resource management in a given situation.
6. The graduate responds appropriately to diversity issues in the workplace.
7. The graduate can recommend an organizational structure to match a given organization's situation.
